You still need humans in the loop. Don't
surrender to the machine.
>> We can use the machines, but don't
cognitively surrender.
>> Because it's so easy to build, the
things that stand out are the things
that are really well thought through.
>> Today in the AI world, I can just make a
prompt and all of a sudden it gets
[music] spit out.
>> You're building on a really crusty
foundation. You're getting short-term
gain for very, very long-term loss. If
you're going to build a real company, it
can't be throwaway.
>> One of your colleagues, Hermann Hauser,
that ask him how he decides what is
worth building.
>> I always start from pain. Are there new
technologies to solve that pain?
>> Bring innovation in, revolution [music]
in, and redefine the space.
>> What's the threshold? What's the sign of
K this isn't big enough?
>> Well, the iPod wasn't big enough. It
took three generations of the iPod
before it became successful. [music] You
got to fail a few times till you find
your way.
>> You are so into marketing, that piece of
building that I think a lot of builders
don't think about at all.
>> The technology's in service of the
customer. Not [music] we're going to jam
the technology down the customer's
throat. A customer only sees what they
see through the lens of marketing.
>> You often come back to [music] the value
storytelling for product builders.
>> Too many times when we're technology
led, we talk about the what. We don't
talk about the why.
>> The why is storytelling.
>> When I watched Steve, he was honing the
story of the iPhone every day. And so
when you saw him come on stage, it was
just
cuz he had done it a hundred thousand
times.
>> Today my guest is Tony Fadell. Tony
doesn't know this, but ever since I
started this podcast, [music] he's been
near the top of my wish list of people
that I've dreamed to have on this
podcast. And that's because Tony is
[music] the epitome of what most people
listening to this podcast want to
become. He co-created some of the most
innovative and beautiful and popular
products in history. The iPod, the
iPhone, the Nest thermostat. He's also
famous for being part of the legendary
team at General Magic. He's co-authored
over 300 patents. He also wrote one of
the most important and valuable and
inspiring books for builders called
Build. Tony is currently an active
investor [music] and advisor to deep
tech startups with his team at The Build
Collective. He was recently named the
inaugural designer in residence at the
MIT Morning Academy of [music] Design.
There's so much gold in this episode. I
could go on and on. I'm going to leave
it there. Before we get into it, don't
forget to check out Lenny's Podcast dot
com for a free year of some of the
hottest and most well-crafted AI
products in the world available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you Tony
Fadell.
Tony, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me. I appreciate it.
>> I have a a bazillion questions I want to
ask you. I feel like I could fill 4
hours of conversation with all the
things that I want to get out of your
head.
I want to start with uh with the
BlackBerry.
I was just watching the uh BlackBerry
movie recently and it's kind of this
journey of the BlackBerry founders and
their story. And then at the end they're
like, "Oh, and this iPhone thing
launched." And they're like, "Nah, this
is dumb. It's like no keyboard. This is
not serious. Can't do anything with it."
I've always wondered just being on the
other side of this, being within Apple
building the iPhone,
uh how much did you guys actually doubt
that, okay, maybe they have something,
maybe we need to add a keyboard?
>> It was the most heated conversation and
it dragged out the longest. There was
one one way of looking at the
BlackBerry, which was that is the market
we want to go after and we want to win.
And then there's the other
side, the flip side of that argument,
which is
only 1% or 2% of mobile phone users at
the time had a BlackBerry, knew what a
BlackBerry was. So, what about the other
98% of the people? What would they want?
What would they need? Why are we going
to go after winning this this very loyal
and and and you know, um incredibly
passionate user base and try to pull
them away from something. And so, there
was this
basically head-to-head
competition between a display keyboard
or virtual keyboard and a physical
keyboard. I had been doing virtual
keyboards for a while since General
Magic and then the in the '90s. And I
knew what handwriting was and and
keyboards were like on these touch
screens.
And but I I was only doing it on a
and I was writing software and
calibrating them and making trying to
make them work with a single touch
uh display, resistive or what have you.
And so, I knew what the limitations were
of those kinds of things. So, I was
like, "Hmm, this is really going to be
difficult." And we hadn't, you know,
multi-touch was just, you know, was on a
big ping pong table. It like it hadn't
been scaled down. So, it wasn't like
something in a consumptive form where
you could really do user test with it.
And so, we set out a set of tests. Like,
okay, how fast can I type this text? How
can I How fast can I do this on a
hardware keyboard? And then, how can we
do this on the virtual one with
multi-touch? And it was a
hardware-software integration challenge
of how we could get this to work. So, we
were going back and forth and back and
forth. Oh, that doesn't quite work in
the software. Oh, that we need to change
this in the hardware. And so, this was a
over a set of months
would Okay, the hardware keyboard's here
and you know, and depends on how
you know, how much you've been using it
and but if there's this margin of error
and we could really understand it. This
over time was started way down here and
then started get it, you know, and we
got a little faster and a little faster
and a little faster. And how many
errors? Not just how fast, but how many
errors and how do you correct the errors
and and all of those things. And at the
end of the day
I was able to convince myself it wasn't
going to be a hardware issue.
And I was convinced at some point that
we were good enough.
Were we as good as a hardware keyboard?
No. But were we good enough? Yes. And
then other people came to that
conclusion. But at the same time there
were other people who were adamant that
the hardware keyboard has to be there.
And they were unrelenting.
And so it came down to So this was a you
know, classic like I I say in build the
data versus opinion based decision.
And if you think about it, you had data
that said there was pros and cons on
both sides.
And
what happened was the data was not clear
that we should choose one over the
other.
And Steve said, "We are going this way."
Enough other people kind of said, "Yeah,
that seems like that's the right thing
to do. We're going to get close enough
to get there." And then other people
were like, "No, my opinion is this." And
guess who wins at the end of the day?
Steve Jobs' opinion does. And he was
like, "If you're not going to get on
board, get out of this room and you can
go work on another project, but you're
not going to work on this one."
>> This episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What
do Open AI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel,
Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of
other winning companies all have in
common? They are all powered by WorkOS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBAC,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. WorkOS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket [music]
ends up working with WorkOS. And that's
because they are the best. Whether you
are seed stage startup trying to land
your first enterprise customer or a
unicorn expanding globally, WorkOS is
the fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unblocking growth. It's
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack where
they have actual engineers waiting to
answer your questions. WorkOS allows you
to build faster with the delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
One direction I want to get into here is
this idea that you'll talk a lot about
about uh micromanaging being actually
really uh important and powerful. So,
there's this image that's floating
around Twitter that I don't know if
you've seen. I'll show it on the screen
as I'm describing it and hopefully you
can visualize it. It's a functional
system versus a a dysfunctional system.
Basically, a company that's doing great
versus not great. And there's this chart
that goes up to more functional that is
uh basically unkind truth and then
another unkind truth, another unkind
truth creates more functional systems.
Uh kind lie followed by kind lie
followed by kind lie leads to
dysfunctional systems. Something Steve
Jobs is very famous for. Yeah, in your
book you talk about mission-driven
are actually really You want
You want a mission-driven
There's certain types of
that are great. Talk about just
the importance of somebody being very
direct in what it takes to build great
products.
>> When you're doing a 1.0 of anything,
when you're doing if you're doing
anything that matters and it's a 1.0 and
it's a new category or it's a new device
the world hasn't seen before,
you have very few analogs that you can
use to make data-driven decisions.
And so, if most of your decisions are
going to be opinion-based decisions for
a 1.0,
you have to have one or two or a very,
very small set of people who are in
charge with making the opinion-based
decisions and can actually get you from
point A to from a a white paper a you
know, a white blank blank sheet of white
paper or whiteboard to an actual 1.0
spec.
Because if you try to do data-driven
decisions all the way along, you're
you're either not doing a differentiated
product because you're taking data from
another thing or you're just getting
just data. Right? So, you're
going to have to figure out how to get
opinion-based decisions to happen, and
that means you have to have, you know,
for lack of a better word, tastemakers.
This is what we are doing. We are the
the person or the team who is going to
make those opinion-based decisions. Of
course, some people aren't going to like
it, and it's going to be like, "I'm
sorry, this is a benevolent
dictatorship. This is what's going to
happen, and this is the vision, and we
don't know what we don't know until we
ship it and we get opinions from the,
you know, the the the users." Now, it's
very different when you do this on a in
a B2B context versus a B2C context. And
so, the hardest environment to work with
it when when you have these
opinion-based decisions is in a B2C
context because you have to see these
decisions in the full light, and you
don't
a consumer does. They have to see it in
from the marketing, from how they
discover it in the marketing, the key
uh the key feature sets, the the ability
to use the product, all of these
different things for them to actually
come up with an opinion
of what they like and what they don't
like and being able to critique it. And
if you don't And if you're doing a 1.0
and the world hasn't seen you, you're
not going to get that from consumers,
ever. You have to ship it, and you have
to build the entire kind of ecosystem so
those consumers see it in the fullness
so that when they do the evaluation and
they spend their own money, then you're
getting real feedback. When it comes to
consumer hard atoms-based products with
services or not, whatever it is,
you have to build the entire thing and
visualize the entire thing to be able to
make those uh uh opinion-based
decisions. And so, you need a small team
who's looking at the marketing angles,
the engineering angles, the the sales
angles, all those different things to
go, "Okay, that's the way we're going."
And there's only so many ways you can do
it because the rest of the team doesn't
see this either. And so, you have to be
very articulate about how uh
what that opinion-based decision is made
for, why, how it might affect market,
how you do it, and make sure the team
understands it. Now, if the team is just
fully against it, well, then maybe it
has to be unkind. But hopefully, if
you've done a good job and you really,
you know, have an informed gut
and you can articulate that, you can get
everybody moving in the same direction,
even if it is and it's going to be
risky. You're right, you got to know
that you got to take risk, cuz most
people in those other functions, they
don't want to take any risks.
And so, there's someone who's got to be
the target, right? And today, you know,
in many contexts, people go and hire
consultants.
Right? They go and hire, okay, we're
going to do a user study, or we're going
to do all this, and they don't have the
user study, they don't have the full
context like I was just describing. They
don't go buy the product, and they don't
what have you, and then they get data.
And that's because the leader, or
whoever's in there, or board maybe, it's
like, we need data to make sure this 1.0
is going to be a success. And I saw this
so many times at all these major
corporations. So, they're just kind of
covering their ass with data,
and not really doing the hard work of
saying, I'm going to make this decision,
and we are going to select this, and
yes, I might be wrong, or we as the
opinion based decision makers are wrong,
and we will correct it later. And we'll
take the heat for that. So, that's the,
you know, a great product manager, a
great person who's leading this thing,
has to understand that's that's what
they have to do if they're really doing
something innovative.
>> So, what I'm hearing here is just the
power, especially in a consumer product,
of a singular vision of a singular
leader that drives it, that is basically
relies on their instinct and their taste
and their experience.
>> They and and and a lot of but again, a
lot of informed judgment from all the
experts around, asking questions,
refining, prototyping, these kinds of
things to then make a decision. So, it's
not just like, I woke up one morning
and, you know, this is, you know, now
it's we're going this direction. No,
it's it there's a lot of work to get to
get there.
>> I want to come back to the idea of
micromanaging, which a lot of people
like to a lot of people that word is is
a bad. Don't be a micromanager. You
advocate for for creating great
products, you need to actually be really
micromanaging. You just speak to that.
What do you feel you think miss about
the importance and power of
micromanaging as a as a leader?
>> You know, we've heard the term sweat the
details.
It's micromanagement of certain details.
And then there's the kind of hands-off
of other details. You have to really
understand the blend of which things
really matter, which things don't. When
I was early in my career, I thought
everything mattered.
And I drove everybody nuts, drove myself
nuts, the people hated like you know,
the and it became my it became like
everybody's got to do it the way I would
do it. It's like no, no, no, no. There's
only a few key things mostly for the
customer or maybe some certain things
for manufacturing or cost or something
where it needs to really be very clear
or a long-term vision.
But then you can delegate other things,
but certain pieces of it you really need
to And when I mean micromanaging, it
means micromanage the decision, not
necessarily operations of doing it.
Making sure you're getting the data like
we did with the keyboard on the iPhone
to make sure we're getting the right
data to help us get the informed gut to
make that opinion-based decision.
And so
so it's it's the the the the micro
specification and delivery of those
certain data pieces that you need. And
and maybe it's also to get out of a
crisis.
Or maybe it's a it's a system level
thing where you have to worry about this
thing at the low level changing up here
and here and like like we could do that,
but only if they do this and this is
like, "Okay, guys, we're going to
fix all of those things at once." And
you have to micromanage it because
everybody wants to find excuses why they
can't do that or they can't do that. So
you have to ask why a lot. So it just
and but it's all in service of some
really key detail that needs to get
delivered or some innovation that needs
to be delivered. Just like like I said
the keyboard, we had to do the hardware,
we had to do the software, we had to do
the filt- filtering, you know, we had to
do how it was
how the graphics were done on the
screen. So, you had all of these layers
that had to keep constantly changing and
adjusting and and and sometimes you have
to micromanage that because there's just
too many variables and someone has to be
the orchestrator of this of this huge
orchestra of many different components
to kind of make it all come together and
be harmonious.
>> I want to go in a slightly different
direction. I want to talk about the
Nest.
>> The thermostat, I'm assuming.
>> Thermostat, yeah. What versus what the
bird a bird
>> was many other Nest products.
>> Right. All right.
Yeah. Uh man, the uh smoke alarm is is
that discontinued, by the way, the smoke
alarm? Yeah, I just
>> Oh,
you you you just What do you Why do you
you want to stab me in the heart like 2
years ago?
That was one of the toughest products I
and our team and Nest and other people
who were on the team have ever made in
their life cuz it's so hard to make
something like that that's There's so
many constraints. Like that's an
ultimate constraint kind of product to
actually innovate in. So, yes, it
unfortunately is discontinued. But it
was the best product in the space for a
decade and no one changed it, no one
invested in it. It It is so crazy. It's
It like pains me and it pains everyone.
People are like,
"They're expiring around me. What do I
do?" And I'm like, "I wish I could tell
you there's something better." No one
replaced it with something better. I
It's just It's mind-boggling that
the number one product with revenue and
everything, you're just going to toss it
away.
>> Why do you think that's happening?
>> Cuz it was an orphan.
>> It's an or- It's just not a big enough
business within Google and they got that
merger.
>> No, no. It was Yeah, it was Yeah, it was
a stepchild. They You really had to pour
a lot of love a lot of
a lot of attention, a lot of love to
make something that was that
crystalline.
And and it had to be well-formed and
nobody really wanted to put in the
effort. So, they probably like, "Who
want to do this? Who's excited by it?"
Nobody was probably excited and they
just said, "Yeah, okay, we'll just
it's not that big a deal in the end of
the day where
if it was invested in, I think it would
have been a critical piece of the next
generation AI assistant in your home.
>> I want to hear more about that. And just
on the smoke alarm point, I my favorite
feature, I was at an Airbnb once and I
just started instead of just like
straight to beeping, it was just like,
"I'm about to make a loud noise." Like
that.
>> [laughter]
>> It's just warning you that it's going to
get
>> We call it heads up.
>> I love that feature so much. It's like,
"It's about to get very loud."
You were telling me.
That was so good.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, it's so that you don't get
PTSD every time cuz you know when a
smoke alarm go off, you're like, "Okay,
everyone calm. We're going to do this
now." Especially when we're doing tests
and stuff. We're like, you know,
when we're cuz the people are supposed
to test or are supposed to test itself.
Like,
you know, like, "Everyone stay calm.
It's going to be good, children. We just
we're going to do this one thing. You'll
get through it. Don't worry."
>> That's so good. I was like, "Thank you
so much for telling me."
>> There was a lot of love and care poured
in that thing.
>> So, I was going to ask specifically
about the Nest. Like, the Nest
thermostat is still the best thermostat
out there. I use it everywhere I go.
It's just the best. The app hasn't
evolved. Nothing's changed for a long
time. Is it the same reason you just
described? It's just not a priority?
It's definitely not.
>> Yeah, it you know, the the whole
organization was a stepchild for
whatever reason. You know, there was
cultural mismatch. There was, you know,
probably a business mismatch.
Um I think if Nest was uh around and
alive today like it was, it would have a
whole different thing when like Google
and Gemini and Google IO was what
yesterday or the day before.
Um you know, it would have been one of
the I think some of the centerpieces of
what you could do because AI needs
context. AI needs a lot of context. And
in a home, you want to make everything
very seamless.
Um and the way you get best context is
by having sensors
properly placed around the home that
don't necessarily invade privacy, but
allow you to pick up a lot of comings
and goings and who's who in the room and
your voice and these kinds of things. Um
audio, I should say, not voice. Um to be
able to give AIs context so that you can
have a anywhere assistant that really
knows what's going on.
>> Is there space for someone to launch the
new Nest, do you think?
>> Oh, for sure. For sure. People keep
asking me, "Why are we going to do it?"
It's like, no, absolutely. It's now's
the I now's the time if it isn't already
happening. I'm actually getting business
plans of people who are like, "Hey, you
know, is this interesting to you? Want
to invest in it? You want to come and
help us, you know, build it? This is
like Nest 2.0." So,
you know, they're trying to do stuff
like that at Ring. I don't think very,
you know, it not very privacy-focused,
but that's what they're trying to do.
That was our vision in the beginning, to
tell you the truth. That's how we we
were like, "You're going to need lots of
context home." Cuz we remember, we the
Nest learning thermostat wasn't the Nest
AI thermostat. It could have been called
that, but we couldn't call it that in
2011 cuz people would have freaked out.
Now, you would have called it the Nest
AI thermostat, right? And people would
have bought it. Um and so, we knew what
AI was, right? So, since 2010, that was
one of the predict one of the foundation
piece foundational pieces of the company
was AI.
And so, that's how we were able to do a
lot of the things we were able to do,
but it was in much, you know, obviously
not LLMs, but smaller stuff. And we
said, "Okay, we can see this world
growing in this AI assistant." Then
voice assistants came, then then there
was Alexa and all that stuff that
happened later on in 2013, 14, 15. It's
like, "Okay." And that was Gen 1, but
we could see this kind of blossoming and
you know, unfortunately in the fullness
of time it takes 15 years more
you know, from the time one Nest
launched
for that vision to come to fruition, but
it is there now and it and if Nest was
if
we pitched it that way we were just too
we were just too early.
>> Let me follow this thread around how to
know what to build and what how you come
up with ideas. So you emailed a bunch of
people that know you asked them what to
ask you.
One of your colleagues Herman Herman
Hauser Herman
>> Hauser yeah.
>> Herman Hauser. So his question he wanted
me to ask you said ask him how he
decides what is worth building.
>> Okay. Well Herman's great. I've known
Herman since 1987
probably before any most of your
listeners were even born. But Herman
just for context Herman was the creator
of Acorn computer which was the Apple II
of the UK back in the 70s and then he
created with a his team the ARM
processor. So Acorn RISC is so ARM means
Acorn RISC machine from Acorn computer
and so he was the founder of one of the
founders of ARM and so I was talking
about processor. Anyway so that's so how
do so so Herman and I go way way back.
So the the thing is how do you solve
your figure out what is worthy to be
built and what's not.
So um
the first thing is I start from pain.
I you know, some people start from other
directions. I always start from pain.
That's what I learned is what are
people's pain right now or you can see
it on the horizon they're going to have
pain and in not too far away.
But how do you solve for that pain and
typically
those pains were because when those
products were created either it was
unintentional consequence or it was a
limitation of the technology at the time
it was created and it kind of just it
evolved but it never revolutionized
itself. And so, it just evolved in that
same pain kind of was there, but it gave
you enough of a a painkiller for the
other problem that having this new pain
was worth it.
And so, I always kind of start with
okay, where's our current pain and are
there new technologies to solve that
pain?
And like in the thermostat case, Nest
was we could use AI to learn. So, it can
learn when you're there, when you're
away, what you temperatures you like so
you don't have to program it so you can
save energy. So, the big pain was
being either comfortable or saving money
because 50% of your energy bill was in
this heating and cooling unit that you
you hated the interface, you didn't know
what it was, you just paid the bill. And
so, it started from that pain and said,
okay, well, programmable thermostats
weren't innovated, but they weren't
used. Like everyone a lot of them had it
because you know, the
energy company would give you rebates
for it, but no one knew how to use it
cuz it was arcane. It was programming of
VCR. And so, what I said was, oh, wait a
second, what if it could learn your
patterns? And that was AI. And so, now
let's put that together in a much cooler
looking attractive package that cost
five to six times more than the the
things that you're buying today, but
that was the that was the crazy
opinion-based decision was okay, yes,
it's going to cost $249, but it's going
to save you
$800 to $1,200 a year. So, it could pay
for itself literally within a you know,
a year or two. So, that was the kind of
that was the big idea and AI was brought
to bear on that old problem. And and
hopefully solve it in a new way. So, so
it starts with the pain,
long-time pain, maybe habituated away
pain that you have to discover and new
technology bonded with that to then to
then bring innovation in, revolution in,
and and and then redefine the space in a
way, which is what we did, which is not
with just the product, but how you
installed it, you know, it was always
installed by third-party installers as
opposed to yourself, how you bought it,
which was you bought it through the
installer, you didn't buy it in Best Buy
or
somewhere else. So, it was we had to
reinvent many different pieces of the
puzzle to get Nest to be the Nest it
wasn't just the product. It was all the
other things. Just like the iPod wasn't
the iPod or the iPhone smartphone wasn't
the iPhone wasn't the iPhone. It was
it was the iPhone plus the App Store
iTunes plus uh
iTunes uh iPod plus iTunes and then the
iTunes music store. So, you have to
think about the full the full thing
you're trying to build not just the one
piece even though that's what you might
remember. You have to remember it's it's
a it's a system that you're going to
innovate with.
>> So, these two-part kind of formula you
shared here with pain and new
technologies. The second part is really
interesting. Essentially, it's like
what's the why now? What's like the new
tech that has emerged that now allows us
to solve this pain?
It feels like that's a core part of
Okay. It's cuz it's interesting cuz when
you talked about the the iPhone
keyboard, it was a similar story of like
okay, we can actually sort of do the
virtual keyboard for the first time in
history.
>> Right, exactly. It could be because of
multi-touch. That's really what it was
and then we were just on the verge of
having fast enough processors, right?
And we were just on the verge and so it
wasn't you know, if you look at the
iPhone or you look Nest iPhone or iPod,
you can see where all these technologies
were just coming to light. So, in the
iPod it was just now mass storage that
was portable and battery operated. That
was really what it was and it was also
MP3s or digital music, right? Those were
kind of and we also had um high-density
we were the first products to have
lithium-ion or lithium
prismatic polymer cells. So, it was new
battery technology, new new mass storage
portable mass storage, and this new uh
generation of uh digital music. And we
had ARM processors, right? And so and
they're really, really low power. So,
all of those things had to come together
to do that. Um and then on the iPhone,
it was the it was multi-touch, but it
wasn't just that, it was also the fact
that now we had Wi-Fi everywhere.
And we knew that 3G was coming.
Cuz we were it was only 2 and 1/2 G when
that was and that was very slow, but we
had Wi-Fi. And so, it was And we had
cameras, right? Digital cameras. We had
the digital camera. We had digital
video, which was the we had YouTube at
the time. So, it was all of those things
just on the verge to say this is what's
going to be very different than what
just came before it like a BlackBerry,
which was really just a texting machine
and nothing else.
>> I'm going to close the loop on the on
your advice on finding a great idea. I'm
curious about kind of the flip side of
uh when it's still when it's not good
enough. So, there's like so many gadgets
out there that are solving some pain
level. Maybe there's a new that they
integrated, but they're still like it's
not a big business. It's not a real
company. What's kind of what's the
threshold? What's like a sign of okay,
this isn't big enough?
>> Well, you know, the iPod wasn't big
enough.
It took three generations of the iPod
before it became successful.
Everyone you know, well, anyone who
knows you know, if they remember iPod
before iPhone because iPhone swallowed
everything. It's like the black hole of
everything. But, you know, iPod the
first generation
was only successful with the Mac geeks
and the Mac geeks were less than 1% of
the market. And then the second
generation was also that way. So, when
we we get we we'd sell everything
we'd sell everything we
could for the most part
in the first quarter and then it would
die because it was just the Mac
aficionados, the loyalists who'd come
and buy everything. And it wasn't until
the third generation where we made it
work on Windows
did it actually start we had the iTunes
music store, did it actually start to
take off?
So sometimes you have to say we're on
the right thing, but we need to make
some changes to get this market going.
And that was a real opinion-based
decision. To you know, we
the team at the team
that I was running, we were really clear
that we had to have Windows connectivity
out of the gate. Or not out of the gate,
but just after the first iPod shipped.
And Steve said, "Over my dead body, no
way. This is going to help us sell more
Macs."
So and then he and then you know, we're
like, "Okay, we're making the second
one. Oh, we're going to keep it with Mac
only. We just got to fix a few of these
things and then all of a sudden it'll
take off." And it was like, it didn't
take off. So then it was
it's a long story about how that about
how we finally got Windows connectivity,
but there was always this skunk works
thing project behind the scenes doing
that. I did the same thing with
stylus. Steve never wanted a stylus on
the iPhone or the iPad. He never wanted
He never wanted it. He's like, "Your
finger is good enough. If we can't do it
with the finger." It's like And I'm
like, "But we're going to have a B2B
context and we're going to have forms
filling and people are going to write."
And and he's like, "I don't care. Just
That means we're going to get to like
Windows pen." Cuz he thought it was
going to be like Windows pen. Which was
you had to use the pen for everything as
opposed to using your finger. So it was
like, I want it instead of pen dominant,
I want it finger dominant. But it That's
what he was saying. But then when we
added the stylus, which was another
skunk works project, all of a sudden it
came out and was like, "Well, we had to
have stylus, right?" And now it's a a
big feature of the product. Not everyone
uses it, but it is a big feature for
certain professionals who who really
want that. And artists and hobbyists and
stuff. And so sometimes you have to have
those skunk works things that even if
the opinion-based
leader doesn't like it, you're like,
"That seems like the right thing. Maybe
not right now, but it's going You can
see it on the horizon." So you just keep
working on those things.
So but we had to like I said, the the
iPhone wasn't a hit right away. It was
kind of like a oh yeah, it worked on
AT&T and it was 2 and 1/2 G and it was
this and that and you know, it did it
only worked in the US. So, we had to get
multiple versions till we got out and
that's in my book, I have the and uh
it's called um
a three I think it's three generations.
Everything needs three generations as
Bill there it is. Three generations.
I've
I've learned
you make the product, you fix the
product and then you fix the business.
So, you have there's no I I've never
seen anyone get it all right the first
time. Like you want you would like to,
but you get close, but make the product,
fix the product after you get customer
feedback and then make the business
which means make the margins. Like on
the first iPods we weren't making any
money. First iPhones we weren't making
any money. Right? The second iPhone or I
say and second iPod, okay, we start
getting a little bit better numbers.
But we got more or less the features
sort of dialed. Third one was like,
okay, Windows, we got the margins, we're
getting up the volume, we got all the
right
and like go.
Right? Reliability, whatever else it had
to be. So, you need to stick with your
idea even if it's not necessarily going
the first time unless there's something
really severely
your brain damaged about whatever it
was. You have to restart, but sometimes
you have to hang in there. And same
thing with Nest, we had to hang in there
with two generations of the the smoke
detector and few generations of the
thermostat before we made the business
work. Right? Not just make the product
work.
>> There's so many directions I can go
here. One that's interesting is how
often Steve Jobs was actually wrong.
>> [snorts]
>> And how many times you had to
>> You're like takes a year still like,
okay, finally
>> We all were wrong at certain times, but
you know, it's when you hit those you
when you hit it big, when you get the
right ones they over they they
overshadow all the other stuff that you
but that's how you have to try and
iterate, you know, Jeff Bezos says the
same thing. I believe in the same thing.
You got to fail a few times till you get
to till you find your way. And um
and uh but that you only fail if you
stop.
If you keep iterating and keep going,
well, then that's not failure. That's
called learning.
>> The other interesting uh part of the
story you just shared here with with
some of my favorite stories in your
book, actually. The fact you uh you kind
of implied this, but basically the first
iPod was you had to have a Mac to use
it. And the idea is it it would we want
you want to sell Macs. This is a way to
get people to buy Macs. And it's like
the way you tell it is basically this
ended up saving Apple eventually. Not
selling Macs, but people buy iPods. And
that was like the became the big part of
the business.
>> Yeah, the mantra was Steve, you know, if
we don't have Windows connectivity, the
iPod doesn't cost $349.
It costs $3,000 because you got to buy a
Mac. And you got to move all your
digital life over to it and everything
else. People are not about to
take a a risk on this company that's
almost bankrupt for $3,000.
So, how are we going to do that? Like,
okay, let's make sure it is only $349
and that they can try it. And once they
try the brand, they go, "Ooh, that's
pretty interesting. Maybe I should try
other products from this company and
give, you know, give them a shot."
Because that was just such a sublime
experience. And that's how it, you know,
it all changed and that's how iPhone was
able to be created cuz without the iPod,
there I'm pretty sure there would have
been no iPhone. There would have
probably been no Apple. Because it was
close to bankruptcy.
>> Wow.
That's crazy how close it was to that if
some of these decisions went the wrong
way.
>> Yeah, very close. Remember there was no
retail back then, Apple retailers, none
of that stuff. You know, most people
don't don't know how on the ropes Apple
was back in 2001.
>> So many stories, but I want to I want to
come back to the the customer journey
thread that you touched on, which I
think is really really important for
people listening to this podcast to
hear. Something that you kind of
reinforce again and again in the book
and you have this awesome image that
we're going to show of the entire
customer journey. And the kind of your
point that you make is so many product
builders focus on building the product
and think build the best product we're
going to win and you have this very
important advice of there's so much more
to it. Talk about especially the
marketing piece. Talk about what you
think builders don't really get even
though they hear this advice in many
ways.
>> When we build products, we define
products when we build them, we have a
good sense of the context when we are
defining those things. We're we are
we're living in that world.
Okay?
And so we're like, oh, we're like this
and these are our issues and this is who
we are and you know, maybe you put on
personas, you know, you we we would
strip out and figure out who our target
customers were with their personas. You
know, is it a
a single mom with kids or is it a
dual income no kid family or is it
senior citizens or whatever and we would
come up with these personas and we would
kind of live inside them as we're
thinking about the product.
But you have to also remember that these
people don't live in those that they
live in the context but they're not
aware of your product in their context.
And so you have to bring it home to them
in and meet them where they are. And so
your marketing, your website, your you
know, your Instagram ads, your whatever
your earned, owned and and earned and
owned media that you do
you really need to
put that your product in their context
and make the visuals and make the words
and everything sing to them.
And if not, they're not going to get it.
Right? And so too many times we just say
only if we just make the perfect
product. No, you have to put all
for a consumer thing specifically and
it's it's also really good for a B2B
product as well. Is make sure you
understand your customer and they go,
you know, and when you say the right
words, they go, "Oh, they get me."
"Oh, I want to listen to these more."
And this is before they ever got the
product. You need to get them to convert
in some way, and they need to hear that
you're
you've already thought about their
issues, or you know and you're living in
their shoes, and they're like, "Yes.
Yes. Yes, more of that." Is this an
emotional point? Is this a rational
point? Is it And you're you're weaving
this this tapestry to get them to come
to some kind of trial or purchase or
conversion or something of the product.
And the best way to do that
is my is word of mouth, right? By other
early adopters. But you got to do the
same thing for the early you know, not
me, not the earliest early adopters, but
the early adopters who other people
trust to talk to cuz a lot of other
people who are late adopters, they know,
"Oh, that's that Well, that's wacky
George. He tries everything." And then
like, "No, no, no." But if so-and-so's
tried it,
"Oh, I should take notice to that."
Right? And so, you what you want to do
is make sure you understand your the
gestation of your customer and where
they are and where they are in the thing
and who who you're trying to I I also
updated the Crossing the Chasm
uh you know, Crossing the Chasm graphic
um in the book saying how we go about
this in our in in in in
uh in our product developments. Because
you really have to think about who your
target user set is and your target
marketing based on the version of
product you're in and how you're going
to get those higher and higher volumes.
And you And it really means about
speaking the context. So, maybe when you
first ship, you can speak to those early
adopters, and you can put it in enough
words that they're going to convert. But
then the second version of the product,
you're getting these
later adopters, and you've got to speak
in their language. And you have And the
third set of adopters, who are really
laggards, you've got to really speak to
them and, you know, go through that, and
it could be totally different. And so,
this was this was a very interesting
um story that I it it it was so
emblazoned in my mind.
Back in 2001 to 123, you know, still
when Apple had no presence outside of
the US. Apple was really it was selling
in the US, some Canada, and some in
Japan. But that was it and that was the
Macs.
So we were selling iPods into those
areas.
And so we had uh kind of the early
adopter and then we had some other
language and then and by the third
fourth version of iPod, we had some
really refined language for those kind
of late adopters.
So then we said, "We're going to go back
and get a push into Europe."
We're going to get we're going to get
cuz iPod hadn't taken off in Europe. So
we're going to push you we're going to
push iPod into Europe.
And so we were on I think the fourth
generation or something like that. And
so what did we do in Europe? We ran the
same marketing
as we were doing in the US in Europe.
And the thing is it didn't resonate with
the early adopters. It didn't resonate
with the later adopters because we
didn't have the same messages. We were
going for a different set of people. And
we're like, "Ding ding ding ding ding
with sales aren't working." He said, "We
got to change the marketing. We got to
meet those Europeans where they're at
cuz they're a low they're slower to
adopt technology versus it starts with
the coast and goes inward in the US,
right?" And so we're like, "Oh, we got
to change things up." And so, you know,
sometimes it's when you get to new new
areas, you have to rethink your
marketing for that area and remember to
meet them where they're at and where the
if it doesn't have a installed base for
word of mouth,
you're going to have to get that word of
mouth started. So work with those people
to get that going. Now it's different
with all software products and all these
things and many many um
many uh products can go global right
away, but marketing
you still got to tell a story and you
got to you know, so it's
it just reminds me that even though we
maybe compress the time for some pieces
of the adoption puzzle, you know,
because we can distribute faster,
doesn't mean we can
the the the the
the
awareness can get accelerated and that
we can get people to intelligently
understand what this product faster
faster if we just say
the words of somebody who might have
known about the product for 3 years.
>> I got to ask about maybe the most famous
I don't know tagline of all time when a
product was launched a thousand songs in
your pocket.
>> songs in your pocket
>> Uh is there a story behind that?
>> Back in the day
at Apple and I I think it's still that
maybe it's changed now, but back in the
Steve days
there was
different functions of Apple
and because they were all lean because
the company was only 4,000 5,000 people
and then it was already doing Macs and
everything each function was kind of
very very functional and so the
marketing the marketing didn't get
into the engineering and the design
folks. It was like separate like Steve
was the it was the hub and he was in
each of them putting them together like
I said the
the
uh the um
you know, opinion-based decision-maker.
And so when we heard the tagline for the
first time
I was like
that's genius. Now, how long that
happened how what was the behind the
scenes? We were so we were just a tiny
team, you know, we were getting this
done in 10 months. So everybody was just
running for it, right? Worse versus
iPhone which was we had discussions of
it should we call it the iPod phone or
should we call it the iPhone cuz Cisco
had the iPhone back in the day and there
was copyright issues and trademark
issues. So we were into that because it
was also a 2 and 1/2 year development
and we were in some and it was betting
the farm and we were going to
cannibalize iPod, right? So there was a
lot more discussions, but in those early
days of 1,000 songs it was
everybody running in literally not
it less than 9 it was really 5 to 6
months everything got done. Um cuz we
really started it in April and it
shipped in end of October.
>> So I think one of the core takeaways
from what you shared here is even if you
may have the perfect product, the
marketing may be
the gap that if something isn't working
it may
>> Absolutely. And and the thing is I think
I think we're starting to see that the
cracks of it. Uh it might be more than
cracks now. With like open AI.
What is it?
It's like oh it's your answering machine
whatever you're like what well what does
it do for me and now I got to keep
paying you? Like it was fun as a demo
and if I but what am I using it for
every day and like oh Claude it does
Claude code and it does you know code
you know it's and then what happens open
AI is like oh we have Codex now. But
then they were Sora and they were you
know this and they were that we're going
to do sex chat we're going to like what
are you?
And so it's like oh yeah you're the
great first you know like Netscape
everyone went out and bought Netscape
Explorer or whatever it was called like
Netscape Navigator. And then all of a
sudden it evaporated. Like well what do
I use the net for? Like I I got the tool
to get onto it but what do I use it for
daily and what's
and it had to develop. And so open AI is
now shifting like oh we got to get
product teams and we got to start about
product marketing and we got to so so
you know that is to me that's it's
marketing but if you start if you are
already thinking about the marketing
you're already going to start thinking
about the product. And that's the thing
is when you're just thinking about the
product you're like and it was really
just a technology demo that went you
know, viral. And they're like, "Oh,
yeah." And they still keep winning on
that. They never put product in till it
was too late. Now, Andropics where they
are and valued more and higher revenue
and all that other stuff. So, you know,
it it just it just
even if it's a software only product,
yes, there's lots of hardware and the
servers and all that other stuff.
You need to think holistically, and you
need to think about the entire customer
journey, the marketing, the you know,
the sales pieces, the distribution
pieces, the product definition
messaging, the target markets
early on. You can't leave it till later
and then get it yeah, and then back
calculate it. And that's why I say you
should, you know, you should really make
the press release before you you before
you
more or less start the project.
>> Yeah, there's a whole chapter on that.
Uh we had the found the um
like Amazon's also very famous for that.
There's a whole book on working
backwards that goes really deep on this
approach.
>> But the weird thing is it's working
backwards. See, that the thing saying
working backwards I
would a movie be created that way? Is it
called working backwards when you say
I'm going to make a script and I'm
making the treatment and I'm going to
really know what it is. I'm going to
know what the I know what my characters
are and how I do character development.
Like, is that really working backwards?
It sounds like it's backwards. It's
like, no, that's the way you do it. It's
just because it's so technology led and
technology and this is what I thought
when I was 20. It was like, yeah, we're
you know, now it sounds backwards. It's
actually, no, that's actually insane.
It's not working backwards. It's just an
insane way of working.
Like, come on. Let's really think
through this.
>> I It says so much that you as one of the
I don't know, most successful insightful
builders are so into marketing.
I think that's a really important
takeaway for people. Just how obsessed
you are with that piece of building that
I think a lot of builders don't think
about at all.
>> Well, when you live in that world and
you live in the customer cuz you're
coming from a customer point of view.
So, you have to see the lens and the
customer only sees what they see through
the lens of marketing and sales,
right? And so, you have to be in their
shoes and you go, "Okay, like when I do
the when I do the press release, I can
only have three or four key features.
After that, it becomes gobbledygook for
a customer. So, you're like, "Okay, what
are those three or four things? Okay,
what is that? That's what we're going to
focus on." And so, no, we're not going
to add five more features. That's not
going to make it sell better.
Right? Or oh, no, we're going to cut
these two features and ship it. It's
like, "Well, wait a second, we cut out
two of our three key tentpole features.
How are we going to sell that anymore?"
So, it's it's it's a holistic design.
It's not
you know, like because we think the
technology
the technology's in service of the
customer. Not we're going to jam the
technology down the customer's throat
and they're going to figure out how to
use it. There's too much noise. You got
to make it frictionless and you got to
fit it in their world and see from their
point of view. You go, "Oh, that's what
I need." General Magic was the perfect
story for that.
You know, I don't know. Your your
viewers should definitely watch the
movie General Magic cuz
>> Absolutely.
>> we made the iPhone 15 years too early
and that was a classic case where we
were just making the things that were
really cool, but nobody needed it.
>> Yeah, that documentary is incredible.
It's like such a I like the very young
version of you.
>> Yeah, very different. They're probably
people won't recognize me.
>> Yeah, you have a whole chapter about
just like not overworking in your in
your career
based on that experience.
>> Magic was for me, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies, like
Cursor, Ramp, Duolingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOC 2, ISO 27001, and HIPAA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
I want to talk about something else
around the evolution of the product
management role in builders. What's
really interesting, this is kind of
going in a different direction, but it's
all connected. Uh I feel like you were
so ahead on this idea that we are
builders versus product managers,
engineers, design. Like, I have your
book right here. It's called Build.
And this is what everyone's starting to
call product managers, people on product
teams.
Uh I'm curious just what you're seeing
with that, this kind of converging of
these roles. Do you feel like everyone
just becomes a builder and there's no
more designer, engineer, product
manager? Do you think they'll continue
being these functions with
but more merged? I don't know. What are
you seeing with the with the product the
discipline of product management
specifically?
>> Well, the discipline of product
management
sits between all of these functional
roles. Okay, whether that's marketing,
sales,
uh distribution, yeah, sometimes
manufacturing, depends on what the
product is. Um engineering, obviously.
Um and
so uh customer support. So, when you sit
between all of these things, you know,
maybe those roles shift or change,
especially depending on what it is
you're building and and that kind of
thing. But, you have to interpret, you
know, what's going on between all of
them and stitch them all together to
make this this thing sing.
And
what we're saying and you know, is oh, I
can just
today in the AI world, I can just make a
prompt and all of a sudden it gets spit
out and you don't know what all those
little functions are. If you are not
aware of each of those functions even in
AI world of what those things are, they
are very clear definitions
of certain points of view
for the customer and you have to
consider them.
And to say that they're going to get
washed away and an AI is going to come
up with it. It reminds me a lot of how
software coding is getting done with
um,
like something like Claude today.
You know, if I don't know, maybe it was
a month ago
when the Claude source code leaked.
Right? Claude source code leaked. And
everyone was like, oh my god, it leaked.
And then if you and and at the time and
I'm sure and maybe I don't know, maybe
they changed it, maybe they didn't, but
at the time Dario was saying, you know,
90 to 100% of all our code is written
by, you know, our, you know, Claude.
And you know, we just monitor it and
watch it.
We're like, oh, well, that's really
interesting. And then the code leaks.
And then if you looked at the code,
anybody who looked at the code,
who's a real software architect and
engineer,
threw up.
They were like, it made what?
They're like, this stuff is brittle.
Engineers were looking at it like, like
this should be layered in four or five,
you know, actually 12 or 15 different
sub functions. This is the main loop of
Claude of of of of of Anthropic's
Claude. The main loop. Not not just
something off in the This is the main
loop and people are like, how can you do
this? This looks brittle. There's like
it's unreadable. It's un And they're
like, "Well, the AI knows it."
But when you think about it
and you have to maintain it, you can
have an agent
make code for you and it could work and
it could test, but is it secure?
Is it maintainable?
If there's something going wrong, can
you roll things back and understand
what's going on? Like there's so many
other aspects to writing code and
delivering a product thing
that you still need humans in the loop.
And so when I think of product design
I think of software code with AI. And
when you look at AI and if it's not
architecting things and it's not
segmenting things and looking at each of
those things like I was saying, you
know, like there's software architects
and then there's software optimizers and
then there's just general coders. And
then there's security reviews. And if
you don't have those different mixture
of experts
around the code structuring it so that
subsequent generations can get better
and better and it just kind of
devolves
into this
mass of things you don't know. You're
getting short-term gain for very, very
long-term loss and that's, you know,
that's called software debt, right?
Technical debt. And everybody hates
technical debt. So you might be fixing
something, but it might be it most
likely is giving more technical debt,
especially when you're at the high
level. So now, how does that map to
product management?
So if you're a product manager and you
type this in and you get some result,
but you don't have a really good
marketer, a really good marketing
communications person, a really good
good, you know, architect, a really good
manufacturing
manager, all these different things in
this thing that you're getting
>> foundation and people think well, my
AI's going to be smarter.
It's not proven to do that. What's
proven is if you properly architect it
and have co- cloud code go into certain
sub segments or have cloud help you
build the architecture, you modify,
refine it, lock it in and say just work
on these few things
and you know, on these more limited
scoped things, yeah, you can make that
work and I think that's the way we have
to consider how we use these tools in a
product management cape
capabilities as well. To just say it's
all abstracted away, it's all going to
be better and when you ask specific
pointed questions and you want this
thing fixed in your marketing thing or
whatever, and they're going to be like,
well, the AI should just figure that
out, too. It's like you have given up so
much. Like that's
to me, sure you can write code, but
there's going to be the difference
between, you know, it's like the
difference between H&M and a luxury
brand.
You can go get certain things that look
like that and copies that and like and
it but it doesn't last more than one
washing or one season and it's this and
you throw it away and it's cheap and
blah blah blah. Or you go to the luxury
thing and you pay more and it's crafted,
it's handcrafted, it's da da da da da da
and you know, it's going to be around
for a while like there is this dichotomy
like fast and throwaway. So, you know,
like what's called fast fashion, we got
fast software. But software, if you're
going to build a real company, can't be
throwaway.
Maybe it can, but I don't think it can
be. If you're really going to do this
cuz you get just technical debt and you
got to start over again.
So, you've got to really understand and
how you're using these tools and a lot
of these things that these AI coders can
do,
agent coders can do, can keep make you
incredible prototypes. Do more
prototypes. Do more of those things to
help you get that informed gut to say
we're going this direction, architect
that in and then work on the sub
segments below it and and and and all
the expert systems that expert things
that you need in each of those domains.
>> Yeah, and I think what you may also be
saying here, which I think is really,
really important, is that because it's
so easy to build, people can just build
all these features and additions, and
the value accrues to build something
awesome, and the product mind becomes
more important to help push this stuff
from just a sloppy every feature, every
checkbox to something awesome that
people actually use.
>> Because at the end of the day, if you're
building it for yourself, whatever, go
have fun. But if you're going to build
it and you want to sell it, and like,
you know, and you only need three key
features to sell it to someone, like,
it's going to have to be boiled down.
It's going to be have to be figured out
cuz you're still selling it to a human
who needs to understand it. Now, do you
think you could vibe code Flighty?
>> Mhm.
Probably.
>> Maybe now that Flighty exists, you
could.
>> Copy that.
>> Like, you could do version two of
Flighty, maybe vibe code it cuz you say,
"Look at Flighty." But the original
Flighty? Like, that's to me, that's
luxury software.
Right? It was understood how the pixels
are done. So, you got to remember, is it
version one or is it version two, three,
four? Because an opinion-based thing on
highly innovative, differentiated stuff,
it doesn't have a model for that.
There's not that stuff in there.
You got to You still need the very
version one to be done. So, and maybe
you can prototype with these things. So,
I just, you know, we I could go on for
hours, but whatever. That's just one old
guy's point of view.
>> I think it's really important this
insight that as it becomes easier to
build, the things that stand out are the
things that are really
well thought through and great and
luxury, almost as you described.
>> And and you can feel it, right?
And you go, "Oh my god." And, you know,
I'm like, one of the biggest proponents
of I like telling them, "Flighty,
Flighty." Cuz I, you know, all the
people in my in my sphere, they're all
flying. I'm like, "Have you tried it?
Have you It's insane, you know?"
So, it's, you know, and then you get the
word of mouth and you know, things take
off because there has been that level of
care and craft to it. And yeah, maybe a
lot of the sub functions of Flighty
could be
built and whatever from
cloud code or whatever, but the whole
thing and the architecture and
everything
I don't think so.
>> And if someone hasn't tried Flighty,
clearly download it and play with it.
This is I love that this is the example
of a amazing product. That's like a
really cool product.
>> all software. It's all software.
>> Yeah.
Something along these lines. As people
hear you talk, clearly you are an
amazing storyteller. And in your book,
you often come back to the power of
storytelling, the value of storytelling
for product builders.
What's I guess one is just why is that
so important, do you think? And two is
what's like one tip you could give
people to get better at storytelling?
>> Storytelling, that's how we passed
information down or or got people to
commit to doing something. Like
stories are so who we are. We go to the
movies for stories. We have books. We
have all this stuff. And it's just so
essential to who we are because we like
to be taken on a journey. We like to,
you know, and hopefully when you're
buying a product or
you know, licensing one or whatever it
is, you're subscribing, you're taking on
a journey that meets your expectations
or out, you know, is is better than the
what do you're you know, your the
expectations were set. It's much It's
out sized that.
And so,
you know, Dave Chappelle is
he just, you know, when it comes to
comedy and storytelling, the way he
weaves it, he can weave a story for 20
minutes to get to the punchline and
you're just you're
you know, just in it, right? I just love
his comedy as opposed to the punchline
guys who just you know, are extremely
like the the short ones.
Um
I It's something in our nature, human
nature. You know, we were told stories
when we were a kid, you know, we read
the same or watched the same movies a
hundred times when we were kids. There's
something about being taken on that
journey that we love. And people love to
be educated that way. Right? Your best
your your best college professors, high
school teachers, whatever, they taught
you why you should love,
you know, certain math or certain
physics or whatever and took you a
journey of why it mattered and then
you're like, oh, now I get it.
You know, you can learn all the
the basics of, you know, how to do
something. But that doesn't really tie
it into something that's meaningful. And
so when you tie it to something that's
human, right? That's when it becomes
uh and accessible for humans and it's
relatable. That's when it goes and it
can be a for anything. And that's when
great marketing, great sales, um
um happens. You know, and and great
story telling through the product
design, that's even better, right?
Because it wasn't just perfume this pig
and you put some, you know, on this bad
product and you can say, oh, yeah, try
it and then you're like, oh, and then it
doesn't meet the expectations. But when
it sings from the
depths of the product, like you were
bringing up with um, you know, the Nest
Protect, the thermostat or the the smoke
detectors and stuff. When we had all
that and then you could feel the love
and care, that's when people go, oh, I
love this and I want more from that
brand or from that company or that team.
That's what they want. And so to get
better at it,
I've learned it because I watched my
dad, he was in sales, right? So I
watched how he would sell Levi's. And I
would watch and he would be like, and it
he wasn't always selling to sell.
Sometimes he was
convincing them not to buy something
because that wasn't the best product
they had. Buy this one instead. And
actually go to my competitor down the
street because he was building a
relationship and story time because he
these people loved what it was. So it
sometimes is not just setting
expectations and telling a story, but
it's also saying, "Hey, maybe I'm not
for you." And that's truth. That's also
truth. And so, like Steve always said,
"The best marketing just tells the
truth."
Now, might
might put nice words around it, nice
creative and everything, but it's
telling the truth. And so, when I
watched Steve prepare for and like I
said, when we did the 2 and 1/2 years
with the iPhone,
he was honing the story of the iPhone
every day.
He didn't give it to marketing. He knew
what that thing was and what those key
um features were, like we talked about,
like and micromanage those features cuz
he knew those were the going to things
going to the world's going to take uh
take notice to.
And he would refine the story and then
tell other people who were unwatched by,
like friends who are really smart, and
say, "I'm going to give you the pitch."
And give you the pitch.
And he would refine, refine, refine.
And um and so, when you saw him come on
stage,
it was just
cuz he had done it a you know, 100,000
times or at least 10,000 times, right?
And he he knew it like boom, boom, boom,
boom, boom. Just it just came off. And
so, I watched and I learned from that.
And that's what we did for like the Nest
learning thermostat. That's what we
learned, you know, we did for each of
those things. It was just that same
storytelling over and over. What does it
matter What Why does it matter? Why does
it matter? And because too many times
when we're technology-led,
we talk about the what.
We don't talk about the why. And the why
is where the storytelling is.
Because you want to take the journey of
why it matters to you.
And
you know, if you're talking it's talking
about the what, you're just talking to
another geek. Love geeks, no problem.
I'm one of them. But and we can relate
on that level. But
general most people who are not in the
technology world, they want a story and
they want something that that touches
them in some way.
>> One of the lesson I'm hearing from what
you just described is telling the story
over and over and over and refining it
over time
is where the best stuff comes from. Not
just here's I just came up with this and
it's going to be amazing.
>> Yeah, oh absolutely. Cuz you you need
and and telling it to other people who
don't who don't It's to see if it
resonates. I remember I remember the
number of times I told the Nest story
before Nest came out because I was like,
"This is crazy, this thermostat thing."
You know, I'm like, "Okay, let me set up
the virus of doubt which was Do you know
how much you spend on your energy bill
every every year for your heating and
cooling? Don't you hate your, you know,
thing?"
Now, there's an there's another way
there's another way to look at the story
tell.
And this is I put this in the book. Oh,
I don't know I didn't put this in the
book.
We all have seen infomercials.
Right?
You know those ones that drag on for a
half an hour, an hour at late night TV,
you know, on some random every channel
now, right? And they just sit there and
they tell you the story from all the
different directions. They give you the
virus of doubt. They're like, "Oh,
here's this cheese grater. And you know,
when you you have this bad cheese grater
your and your knuckles bleed and, you
know, I
whatever and it's hard to clean and and
they over exaggerate everything and they
show you all the pain points of it. And
then they show how wonderful, easy it is
to use in this whatever they're selling.
And then it's easy to buy and then it's
easy to return and then and it's overly
dramatic.
And we all know, you know, it's like
wrestling. It's all an act and whatever.
It's not, you know, there's probably no
real list there. But it is
storytelling in a way. And if And not
that you should do that because they
they overhyped the expectations, but
look at the techniques that are used,
the psychological techniques, the
emotional techniques to get there. And
then dial it back and go, "Okay, I'm
going to do that but with truth."
And that's when things start to go pop
pop pop pop. Or at least that's what
I've seen. And so I always use that as
another metric. And it's not just
telling the story over and over, it's
what what story you are telling. And so
I try to think of that as well. But not
I obviously clowny and cheesy and
everything else, but it is a caricature
of of doing good marketing.
>> I feel like this is a really interesting
lens into the press release first or
working backwards ideas, create the
infomercial first and just go to
extreme.
>> Sure, you could.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh my god.
>> No, what you don't want to do for sure.
>> But it's like a cool lens to go really
far and then kind of pull back the best
parts and make it honest. I think we
just came up with a really good idea
here. Um
>> [clears throat]
>> I want to come back to the iPhone.
So I think it came out like 20 years ago
almost at this point, right? It launched
2017 2007 something like that.
>> So what's crazy is people are still
trying to build the next iPhone,
especially with the AI. Everyone's just
like, what's We've had this thing
forever. What the hell? Like hasn't
anything changed? I'm curious. I'm I
imagine people ask you this question.
I'm curious just like what do you think
the next iPhone may look like with AI?
What's like the device that you think
emerges over time? Do you have a vision?
>> Okay, there's the
what it could look like long-term
and there's what it could look like
soon.
And so a lot of people like, "Okay,
there's the long-term thing and and when
we can trust the models and when they
have memory and when they do this stuff,
then we're still going to need a display
cuz sorry people, unless we're plugging
it into our brain like a BCI brain
computer or there's some
laser thing going into our retina, we're
going to need a display. So so
barring those kinds of technologies,
we're going to need a display. And so
the best display that we have is a
smartphone-like thing, okay? It's not
going to be this tiny thing. We saw what
happened with Humane and all that other
stuff. So you're going to have some kind
of cuz the best way to visualize
visual information
is with a display, right?
So, we're going to have some kind of
small slab, maybe it's foldable like we
see today, whatever, so that you can
access it. You maybe many things you
don't need a display for, but a lot of
things you still do, right? Because you
might not be tapping and swiping and all
that stuff. So,
I am of the opinion that long term,
if you look at how a device is layered
today, and this is many, many devices,
and iPhone specifically started this,
which was, you know, tapping and
swiping.
Right? That was That was the first thing
is, you know, you use your finger.
Then after that was keyboard.
And then after that, the tertiary thing
was a voice input.
We need to flip it. We need to
absolutely flip it, and we have to say,
and this is what I always wanted to do
with Nest, which is I want to remove
displays, and we need to have voice as
the number one primary feature, and you
build around voice.
Then we have keyboard if necessary, and
then we have tapping and swiping.
Okay? It should go exactly the opposite.
And the problem why we know most of us
don't go around talking to our phones
and everything, and we saw this also
happen with cars, there was tactile
buttons, and then there was the touch
screens, and then they also added the
voice in, but nobody really uses voice
in the car unless it's some
accessibility thing, right? Because
voice was always added at the end
because it was always like, well, it
sort of works, and it's it's a gizmo,
but it's, you know, it's like
like Alexa was for person 1.0 or Siri
was, whatever.
But when we actually have really good
voice input with not just
it understands just like whisper flow or
something cuz that's great. And what
what I'm saying is the intelligence
behind it with memory and everything
else. So, it's then we can start to say
and and we can start to use that much
more specifically and then deprecate
those other things. But, we've always
have to have them there as a crutch
for voice because voice has never been
able to deliver. So, that's the
long-term thing. So, it'll have some
kind of display, but it's going to be
much more voice primary and then you're
going to have the other things as
secondary and tertiary.
In the middle now or sometime soon, it's
going to look much much like the the
smartphone is because we're not going to
get away from their all app interface
anytime soon. We're not going to get,
you know, we're going to we'll move some
things, but we don't trust it yet. It's
going to take a while till we trust it.
And we are literally turning over a lot
to this trusted thing.
Right? Because tapping and swiping, we
know what that is for the most part. We
know that we can trust ourselves when
we're tapping and keyboarding or
whatever. This other thing we don't
know. And so, it's going to take a lot
of time. Reminds me of kind of General
Magic in a way for us to be able to get
en masse to trust it. And we're already
seeing this with coding agents and
everything else, you know, oh, they
deleted my source code. And I again, I'm
not trying to be an old guy who's saying
it's not going to work. Sure, it's going
to work in certain things. I'm saying
for consumers every day in the things
they want. And
it's cheap enough so it doesn't cost
them a lot.
Right? Today, people are like, "Yeah,
I'm going to try ChatGPT or whatever it
is $20 a month or $200 a month." That is
unsustainable
for if you think consumers are going to
pay that. There's just no way.
Unless it's incredible. But, they're not
going to
you know what I mean? Like, they tried
it and now they're getting kind of their
Siri a lot of them are getting their
Siri 1.0 with this. like I paid for it,
but it's really not all that yet.
And it's like full self-driving. Like I
paid for full self-driving. It's 15
years later. I'm still waiting for full
self-driving. So, I think we again
understand what we think we want, but
where the technology is and and and the
social adoption and the social trust
that needs to be created around that is
going to take a lot of time and it's
going to take a lot of iterations to get
there. Especially and if especially if
you're going to have to pay for it.
>> It's really interesting to hear you say
that long-term even will get a need a
screen.
I cuz I think a lot of people are trying
to go to just just like an airpod or
like some kind of magical AI device.
>> Surely and like how are you going to
look at a map if you want to look at a
map? You're going to just you're going
to listen like put on the voice stuff in
your car and never look at the map on
your car and say, "Oh, turn left in 200
ft. Turn left in 100 ft." You're like,
"Shut up. I can't hear you anymore." I
like I just want to glance over. So, I I
I I don't buy it. Like unless you have a
jack in your brain or in your eye or
some other way it's getting into your
cortex.
>> That is so interesting. And you're not a
fan of like the Humane approach I think
was like a little projection on your
hand as a screen replacement.
Right? Was that part of it?
>> Yeah, why?
>> [laughter]
>> What? It's just a
It's different, not better.
>> Mhm.
So funny.
I guess the advantage obviously is it's
like a small little device you could
just put somewhere versus like a screen,
but
yeah.
>> Yeah, and you're like, "Oh, it's like
you know, it's like the the hologram
projections of Star Wars or something."
You're like, "Yeah, that's cool, but you
still need to you you still need a you
know, a
a screen or something to you to project
on." So, it is a screen at the end of
the day. You got to still project it
onto something.
>> Yeah, it's well cuz everyone keeps
saying, "How is it possible that the end
ideal product is a piece of glass that
we look at?" And you're what you're
sharing here is just like that's
actually maybe the ideal
>> Yeah, and like I said, you fold it up,
you put it in your thing and it rolls
out or whatever else. But, I still think
there's going to be that thing. If you
look at her, if you remember the movie
Her, they had they had glass.
There was glass there for certain for
certain things.
>> Wow. I don't I completely don't remember
that.
>> to go back and watch the movie. It's
there.
>> Oh my god, that movie.
>> Wait,
I nailed it.
>> Oh, man.
>> Go Spike.
>> Mhm. It's Spike Spike Jonze, right?
>> Yep.
>> I don't even know.
Um
I wanted to ask also just it's
interesting that basically everyone is
getting into hardware now. Like, you've
been at this for so long building
hardware in AI, and now it's just like
the hottest thing. Everyone is building
hardware. So funny. Thoughts? I don't
know. How does that feel?
>> Look, I I was building hardware when it
wasn't in vogue in 1995 and 96. Everyone
was like, "Tony, you're And this was in
the valley. Tony, you're crazy. It's all
about the internet. We don't need any
hardware."
And then, iPod comes like, and I was
pitching new businesses in '99 and 2000.
They're like, "Well, that's the
stupidest idea ever." Then, the iPod
comes out. "Tony, you want to leave
Apple and start that business you wanted
to do with hardware?" You know, and then
and then it was like, "Yeah, okay." And
then, it was all software mobile stuff
again. Like, "Okay, we don't need
anything cuz but we we can't get to the
next level of software if we don't make
the next level of hardware." And it has
to the revolution has to happen
completely.
Like, you got to have the mobile network
and the mobile network software for the
mobile network to work. You had to have
the MP3 player and the MP3 you know,
format bits to make that work. We're
seeing with AI, we got to have AI plus
all the data centers and edge compute to
make that work. So, and then over time,
the hardware becomes less it becomes
more mundane. Like, "Okay, it doesn't
change as much." But, all the software
starts to then, you know,
So,
I've always just been continually going
through the things that I love to do and
doing the things at the the the the the
full stack level because that's where I
know is innovation. That's what we had
to do at Nest. We had to innovate at the
software level, the hardware level, the
network level to get the first
thermostat out and then the Nest Protect
and all that stuff.
If we look now going on, people are like
uh if you're a SaaS company or if you're
a software only company, your software
company's worthless because anyone can
vibe code it into the thing. And and now
they're like, "We're only funding
companies that have atoms in their
business plan with software." I'm like,
"Duh." Like like where where have you
guys been?
So it's just it's just funny to watch
these cycles go and happen and it's
like, "Okay. All right, you guys can go
chase your tails. I'm going to just keep
here doing these full system kind of
products and businesses. Yes, they're a
lot harder and yes, they cost more money
and yes, they're going to take longer to
scale and adopt and blah blah blah, but
they have staying power for years,
right?"
And and they bring and they bring new
new features that you could have never
had if you just did software only cuz
you need especially let's say in
robotics where you need new sensors and
you need this and new that what have
you, right? Look at Waymo, you know,
it's like
it's an electric car with you know,
electric car with tons of sensors and
and everything. It was it's a hardware
platform. Maybe it doesn't look as
streamlined as maybe a smartphone, but
it's an incredible hardware platform
with an incredible software platform and
that is something that we're going to be
able to innovate on and it it'll become
a platform for something else, I'm sure.
You know, delivery or this or whatever
else.
>> When Evan Spiegel's on the podcast,
Snapchat founder, he said exactly this.
This is why they're they've spent so
much money on these specs and he's just
like, "This is the only way to survive
in software is you need to have a
hardware component now."
>> Yeah, I just very interesting.
Everything old is new again and
and and you know, I've been in this game
35 40 years. I just you just see it.
You're like, "Okay, I was there at '99
when the bottom fell out and you know,
AI is different but it's there's a lot
of similarities and you know, we're
going to have the Gen 1 companies, the
Gen 2 companies and you know, when
people really understand product instead
of selling technology platforms that
people have to figure out for
themselves. So, you know,
it's it's it's fun to watch. It's a
game.
>> Okay, maybe one more question before we
get to our very exciting lightning
round. What are you What are you most
excited about these days in terms of I
don't know, gadgets or hardware
technology that's emerging? Is there
anything you're like, "Oh, Pay
attention."
>> I've been doing this AI plus hardware
thing now, not just at Nest, but in many
of the startup companies that we funded
at Build. And so,
company like Simbe Robotics, you know,
it's Simbe Robotics. We were doing
robotics way back now it's not a
humanoid, but it does inventory
inventory of retail stores. And we've
been at it, I don't know, eight years
now, seven years.
And now it's just taking off, right? And
it does have AI and it has a robotic
platform and it's like and it really
solves real pain points for the
retailers of inventory and the workers
hate doing inventory, counting
everything on every shelf and all that
stuff. So, it really works. And like I
love seeing that stuff. You know, I
we're doing the same thing at Great
Parrot with AI and and recycling. Like
it's literally figuring out what things
should go in this recycling bin versus
that and doing it really fast with
cameras and and all this stuff. It's
like and we've been at that for a few
years. And we have AI plus textiles.
Like most textiles you know, are have uh
you know, uh weaving errors and and and
and color errors and defects and things
like that. And so, people still make all
of these these products, but then they
have to incinerate them cuz they're not
perfect at the end because we they don't
catch the quality problems early enough
in the in the in the product product.
And we're doing AI plus cameras to to
spot all the stuff. And again, another
thing. And we're doing this We've been
doing AI and drug drug design now for 10
years at Recursion and that's taking off
and it's like so I'm really interested
in not just these frontier models and
this whole thing is really good AI that
you can trust.
Scope correctly with this solving real
problems every day as opposed to pipe
dream AGI, you know, okay, you can go
solve that. I'm going to go and build
all these businesses that really matter
right now and we're finally getting
traction because people like AI and
robotics and
now all of a sudden we're in vogue and
we've been here really working on our
product market fit, working on our
marketing, working on version 3.0 of the
device and everything and people are
adopting them and that's what's
wonderful to see. So I'm excited by all
that. We have we have another one like
AI infusion, you know, and doing that or
or
finally doing um
tons of software with chemical reactions
and now we're we're turn we have a
agricultural
clean agricultural
fuel and oils company that is cleaning
up farms all around Central America. So
like
and we're almost all atoms plus software
in some way and so it's just nice to be
sitting here and um
and knowing that we made these bets a
long time ago and we're doing it now.
We're not necessarily, you know, I was
early on in Grok that, you know,
right? Cuz I was like and it was cheap
then and it was like, yeah, that's the
right way to go and and and my friends
were in Cerebras and I got into that and
then, you know, it's like but these are
long-term plays and they're finally
coming to fruition but we did invest in
it not when it was hyped and it's you
know, we were doing it back when
unicorns valuations were billions of
dollars. Today, if you don't have a $5
round raised, you're not anything. It's
like, okay, well, that doesn't work from
a venture perspective. Like with those
kinds of you never get the venture
returns. You can't invest in things when
when the valuations are already nine
digits or 10 digits and you you think
you're going to a small portfolio that's
like
Uh-uh, that's not the kind of game I
want to play. So, I I'm glad that we
have well positioned in the all these
companies that have real good product
market fit that came in the right
valuations that and that we can really
help and make big change and deliver
painkillers. And we'll let everybody
else over there play. So, that's what's
exciting to me.
>> No, man. There's this quote that I I
used the other day on a different
podcast
that I think applies to you. It's a
quote from the Bible that you were made
for a time like this.
>> [laughter]
>> It feels like all the things are
converging around the things that you
have been doing for so long and the
technology is finally getting exactly as
described to actually something amazing.
>> The same thing happened to General
Magic, right? General Magic iPhone too
early and then I just kept added and
added and then then doing the iPhone.
So, it's just you just you stick with
it. Like there's too many people who
chase their tail and chase whatever the
hottest thing is. When it's already hot,
it's already too late to be in it.
>> For people that don't know what you do
these days, you talked about all these
companies you work with. Help people
understand what what it is you spend
your time on in case they may want to
try to work with you on this stuff.
>> I think the the first thing to know is
that I'm we invest in
deep technology. So, that could be
hardware, it could be software, software
plus hardware, it could be chemical,
could be all kinds of different stuff.
But
remember we talked earlier about what's
the pain?
And is there new technology that comes
out to solve that pain in a new way?
Or And so, what what we do is I've
learned that I invest in the deep
technologies that are going to unseat
the incumbents because it's going to
change the market or the product in such
a dramatic way that customers will
choose this. So, we're not we're not
just feature
the the com- competing on features or
better marketing or whatever. We're
fundamentally a different product. Now,
it might take longer to get the market
to shift to it, but it's fundamentally
different. Just like I brought up Grok
and Cerebras and these kinds of thing.
It's fundamentally different. And so, at
Build, what we do is we invest in those
technology companies that can be that
seed that can unseat things. And maybe
they go the distance or maybe they are
the key enabling tech that allows
another startup to go to the distance,
that kind of stuff. And so, that's what
we invest in. And we do it in in the
environment, in societal benefits, and
health benefits. That's where we focus.
And you know, at times we've had a
portfolio of over 200 companies. And we
do we do that, but we don't just invest.
When we get involved, many of the
companies we advise. And we come in,
help them with product management,
operations, we help them with financing,
we help them with org development, uh
you know, just all kinds of different
ways that a lot of times in marketing
and communications, right? Because we
talked about storytelling.
Storytelling's really important. And a
lot of deep technology people, they're
incredible,
you know, engineers, scientists,
researchers, what have you.
They have a really good idea, but they
don't necessarily know how to form the
product around it or form the marketing
around the product they're building or
help the marketing to inform the product
and vice versa. And so, we try to
encomp- encapsulate that and and really
bring that to bear so they don't they
don't hit it on the fourth version. They
try to get very close to the first or
second version so they can get on that
three that three version um cycle to get
to a a a uh company. And so, that's what
we do. So, we get to have a lot of fun.
We get to work play in all these
different place uh spaces, health,
medicine,
drugs, robotics, uh uh um
you know, chips, these kinds of things.
So, that's what's That's just what's
wonderful to us when we get to just be
kids in the candy store and work with
all these incredible smart entrepreneurs
and everything. So, that's one thing I
do. The other thing I do is I'm a
designer at residence at MIT. So, I just
finished up my first year there um
with the MIT Media Lab and architecture
and design and help to
uh you know, give lectures and and um
and work with work with students,
amazing, amazing, smart students I with
the great technology, but help them with
the customer journey. Like, try to make
sure that they see this stuff early on
in their career, not after 10 years and
then they finally understand, "Oh, wait
a second. What am I really building? Who
is it for? Not just what is it I'm
building, but why am I building it? And
for who?" And so, we're trying to get
that into the into some of the later
undergraduate and graduate uh students
so we can, you know, watch them change
the world more quickly.
>> Incredible. I love just all the levels
of ways you are helping people. There's
the investing, there's this book,
there's MIT, there's these
conversations.
>> It's fun. It's just so much fun, you
know.
>> I love I love how much fun you're
having. Is there anything else you
wanted to share that we didn't cover?
>> We should really just talk about
ethics and morals and your your
point of view on that.
And
as a product manager, as a product
designer, you need to really consider
these things. I understand we have lots
of big questions about AI and is it
going to be a disaster for the for the
you know, for the next generation and
for our societies and all that other
stuff, but I think that
you really need to be well grounded and
have real principles when you're
designing something and don't let those
things go astray. Just like you wouldn't
go astray with a bad user interface or
something like that. Make sure you're
not trying to addict your users. And if
anybody is,
there's always other jobs, and there's
always other better companies. And don't
chase the money for tearing apart what
it is, the fabric of the society that we
built. Uh obviously there's going to be
innovation, and there's going to be
change. And but when it you're really
doing it, and you can see that you're
doing it, and you're like trying to get
people hooked, or you're like, "Ah, I
can more dopamine, or what have you."
That's when, you know, you have to start
really looking at things. And a lot of
times people are young, and they they
think, "Oh, that's great. That's what I
want." But when you start to have kids,
and you start to have families, and you
start to see the And you're not just
about you. You You're You're You're not
trying to just get out of your family.
You know, uh you out of your when you
were growing up. You know, "I'm
individual, and I want what I want." You
know, you really need to start thinking
in it systemically about how what the
benefit that you're bringing to
the society as a whole, not just to the
business that you're in, and trying to
bring in whatever revenue you're trying
to do. Um because the end of the day,
users will feel that. And then I think
And will will reward that, as we see
with Apple with privacy, right? And
people say, "Oh, they're behind because
they're so private, and there's this."
But it's a double-edged sword. You know,
I remember when we had a very pointed
discussion when the iTunes music store
and and when it was turning into video,
um was being specified and when we're
thinking about it. And everyone's like,
"Oh, this is going to be great. We're
going to do movies. We're going to do TV
shows. That's going to all be great.
We're going to make a lot of money with
this. And the studios, everybody's
behind it." And then somebody goes,
"Yeah, well, we should have porn, of
course."
Steve was like,
"What?
Is that the kind of world you want your
kids to grow up in? And Apple is related
with that? And Apple's about
Is that what we want to do?"
And it was very clear it was shut down.
And we need leaders like that. You know,
we need leaders who are very clear as
opposed to I'm going to make a huge
service for everyone and they're all sex
chat sex chatbots for everyone. I just
think, you know,
when you start normalizing those things
and you start telling other generations
that's a value and you start and I
understand that there everyone has their
own what's right and what's wrong and
here I am the old guy, you know, again.
Uh I
I think we, you know, we can go a little
too far. I'm for individual rights and
for everyone to be a thing, but when
major companies are are doing this in
the guise of certain kinds of behaviors
they're trying to achieve,
um you know, when we're selling we're
turning
uh personal connection into a product
with AI chatbots and making them really,
you know,
uh
devolve
uh you know, social interaction to the
point where I'm going to have a perfect
interaction with this thing because the
world is so messy. It's like we're we're
losing humanity with that. And we're
just for for for gain. So, I I I wish
that the other product designers out
there really take it to heart. Not
saying we got to be lily white and, you
know, being in a in a in a church every
weekend and Bible banging. I'm not
saying that at all. I'm not MAGA. I'm
not any of that stuff. Just saying, hey,
think about it.
>> A lot of people look at the iPhone as
this like thing now that everyone's
hooked on. It's like gotten it's so
good. We're just like
it's too good. Uh and there's all this
data showing all the impact it has on
people and things like that. Just like
how do you
think about that and the the impact the
iPhone has had on people?
>> Well, the first thing is the iPhone
wasn't set out to be that. We do, you
know, there's unintended consequences
and the unintended consequence was
social this social media happened. And
social media Apple's not a social media
company, right? But it does distribute
the apps or make available those apps,
right?
And so the way I think about it is, you
know, we have
lots of junk food and we have an obese
nation or obese world because of all the
junk food and it takes us to regulate
our
our in our our consumption to do that
and and get healthy tools and you know,
when and and you know, others
nutritional elements on the back of
things and you if you want to make a
better decision, you can and I hope AI
and these assistants will help people
get better control uh of those kinds of
things where our lizard brain is being
you know, stimulated in a way that like
consume more, consume more of
physical food, right? And now the same
thing's happening in digital food, but
we have digital food that doesn't have
the nutrition labels, doesn't have the
warnings, doesn't have the regulation
that it needs to have just like we do
with our physical food. Because oh, we
can't you can't let innovation, you
know, whatever uh you know, be slowed
down. I think I think there's I'm not
saying again being a nanny and all the
other stuff, but we got to have some
balance and it's just swung too far and
I still think that the platform
companies like Google and Apple could be
doing a lot more around digital
consumption tools and information to
help people make better decisions for
themselves, for their families and what
have you. Because, you know, you could
go to the refrigerate get a iPhone's
just a refrigerator.
You can put in junk food or you can put
in good food and even if you put in good
food, you could go to the good food
every 5 seconds,
right? You have a refrigerator in your
kitchen. You can put good food or bad
food. You can open it all the time and
keep consuming.
So,
we need to learn habits, we need to
teach habits, we need to put in
regulations, we need information, we
need tools to help us monitor and manage
that stuff and they need to be supplied
and we We to just like we have rules
around, you know, who can buy something
when they're 21 or under 21. We need all
those kinds of things. And it needs to
happen. Um, because
because why? Sure, you could have a
short-term gain in your customers, but
if you make your customers unhealthy,
you're not going to have customers.
>> Let me just say for folks that haven't
read your book, I just want to uh,
communicate how great it is. There's
very few books that are both tactically
useful, that give you like, here's how
to do a thing, and also just inspire you
to build and make great things. And
Build does that in such a great way. Uh,
I think everyone knows about it. I don't
know if everyone's read it. So, highly
encourage you to read it.
Two final questions. Where can folks
find you online if they want to maybe
learn about the stuff you're up to now?
And how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Great. Well, let's see. Well, thanks
again. This was fun interview. I really
enjoyed it. I think if you want to
interact with us, we're at buildc.com.
So, Build Collective, but we're buildc,
b u i l d c.com. You can go and see the
companies we invest in, and you can find
ways to contact us there. Um, and how
can uh, viewers help me? Um, or help us?
I think learn about the companies, see
if you can model whatever you're doing
in some of the learn from insights, you
know, there's a lot of websites that we
helped to create. A lot of the marketing
we created for deep tech through those
through those those investments we made.
So, you can see some well-done
marketing. I hope you like our our
website for buildc to show you how what
we think is a really great website that,
you know, only doesn't sell things
necessarily. You know what I mean? Uh,
like, you know, point and click and and
purchase. But, um,
uh,
I I I I just I it just
get the get them rebuild and apply. You
know, that's I think that's the most
thing is rebuild, read other things like
that, um, and really hone your craft.
Make better products, make a better
world, because the world only gets
better by the things we make and how
what we bring. And so that to me, that's
the that's the most important way to
help me is by making other cool products
like Flighty or other things that are
like, I love this thing. So make great
stuff, people, and don't think the AIs
will, you know, use them for the the
tools that they they can help with, but
don't have cognitive surrender.
Don't allow your Don't surrender to the
machine.
We can use the machines, but don't
cognitively surrender and make better
stuff. Make better stuff than
myself or any of the teams that we back
can make because we do have better tools
now, so please do.
>> Amazing. Tony, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Hey, Lenny, that was great. Really
appreciate it. Uh looking forward to
seeing what your what your audience
creates.
>> Same. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, [music]
Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes [music] or
learn more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.